README.md, before:

# BrewDG

Homebrew Dependency Graphs.

BrewDG allows you to visualize your homebrew package dependencies, and can give you a list of packages in an order which minimizes the amount of dependency installation required by subsequent packages.

## Installation

`gem install brew_dg`

**N.B.**: this is not the sort of tool that should be distributed as a gem. See [Gary Bernhardt's comment](https://github.com/garybernhardt/selecta#installation) on this in the `selecta` README. For now, while this tool has a couple of bulky dependencies, it'll remain a gem.

## Examples

1. List packages plus their recommended dependencies. This is what compelled me to write `brew_dg`.

    ```
    $ brew_dg git postgresql sqlite redis
    > git readline ossp-uuid postgresql sqlite redis
    ```

    ossp-uuid is recommended for postgresql, readline is recommended for sqlite. Note that readline is required for postgresql; it seems like it would be interesting to factor that into the final list of packages.

2. Visualize homebrew dependencies. See [Graph](#graph) for visual details. (requires graphviz, and a bit of time):

    ```
    $ brew_dg -o library.png
    $ open library.png
    ```

3. Visualize a package's recommended and required dependencies (as well as their dependencies)

    ```
    $ brew_dg -o postgis.png postgis
    $ open postgis.png
    ```

    [![](http://f.cl.ly/items/0i041b0u1F0e3n153Z1z/postgis.png)](http://f.cl.ly/items/3g2m3y2e150X1w2d263s/postgis.png)

4. List all of a package's dependencies, including Optional and Build dependencies.

   ```
   $ brew_dg -a postgis
   > readline ossp-uuid postgresql proj geos json-c libpng jpeg giflib libtiff \
       lzlib libgeotiff sqlite freexl libxml2 pkg-config libspatialite cmake \
       mysql gdal autoconf automake libtool gpp postgis
   ```

5. Visualize all of a package's dependencies, including Optional and Build dependencies

  ```
  $ brew_dg -a -o postgis.png postgis
  $ open postgis.png
  ```

## Installation

`gem install brew_dg`

## Synopsis

    brew_dg [options] [package package ...]

## Description

Assuming for the moment that brew_dg is given no options, for each
package given, brew_dg will display that package, along with its
Required and Recommended dependencies. brew_dg orders the packages such
that a given package will not be installed until its Recommended and
Required dependencies have been installed.

If no options or pacakges are given, brew_dg displays any homebrew
packages you've installed, along with any uninstalled, Recommended
dependencies in an order such that a package will not be installed until
its dependencies have been installed.

The following options allow users to configure and tweak the details of the
preceeding description:

    -a
        Display all dependencies, including Optional and Build dependencies.

    -o [file]
        Draw graph, and write it to file. Directed edges are read as "depends
        on." If given a directory $DIR, the file will be located at
        $DIR/library.png. See Graph section for stylistic details.

    -O [file]
        Draw inverted graph, and write it to file. Directed edges are read as
        "is a dependency of." If given a directory $DIR, the file will be
        located at $DIR/library.png. See Graph section for stylistic details.

    -t types
        Display only dependencies of the comma-delimited types specified. e.g.
        `-t Recommended,Optional'

## Graph

The graph uses edge and arrow styles to differentiate between dependency
types.

    Required:    A solid edge with a filled, triangular arrow.
    Recommended: A solid edge with an empty, triangular arrow.
    Optional:    A dotted edge with a filled, triangular arrow.
    Build:       A dotted edge with a tee-shaped arrow.

Commit message:

Reorder examples, and make note of slowness

README.md, after:

# BrewDG

Homebrew Dependency Graphs.

BrewDG allows you to visualize your homebrew package dependencies, and can give you a list of packages in an order which minimizes the amount of dependency installation required by subsequent packages.

## Installation

`gem install brew_dg`

**N.B.**: this is not the sort of tool that should be distributed as a gem. See [Gary Bernhardt's comment](https://github.com/garybernhardt/selecta#installation) on this in the `selecta` README. For now, while this tool has a couple of bulky dependencies, it'll remain a gem.

## Examples

`brew_dg` is pretty slow since it's issuing and parsing the output of `brew` commands. Which is to say, you may want to have a beverage to sip while using it, particularly on a large number of packages.

1. List packages plus their recommended dependencies. This is what compelled me to write `brew_dg`.

    ```
    $ brew_dg git postgresql sqlite redis
    > git readline ossp-uuid postgresql sqlite redis
    ```

    ossp-uuid is recommended for postgresql, readline is recommended for sqlite. Note that readline is required for postgresql; it seems like it would be interesting to factor that into the final list of packages.

2. List all of a package's dependencies, including Optional and Build dependencies.

   ```
   $ brew_dg -a postgis
   > readline ossp-uuid postgresql proj geos json-c libpng jpeg giflib libtiff \
       lzlib libgeotiff sqlite freexl libxml2 pkg-config libspatialite cmake \
       mysql gdal autoconf automake libtool gpp postgis
   ```

3. Visualize homebrew dependencies. See [Graph](#graph) for visual details. (Note that these visualizations require graphviz):

    ```
    $ brew_dg -o library.png
    $ open library.png
    ```

4. Visualize a package's recommended and required dependencies (as well as their dependencies)

    ```
    $ brew_dg -o postgis.png postgis
    $ open postgis.png
    ```

    [![](http://f.cl.ly/items/0i041b0u1F0e3n153Z1z/postgis.png)](http://f.cl.ly/items/3g2m3y2e150X1w2d263s/postgis.png)

5. Visualize all of a package's dependencies, including Optional and Build dependencies

  ```
  $ brew_dg -a -o postgis.png postgis
  $ open postgis.png
  ```

## Installation

`gem install brew_dg`

## Synopsis

    brew_dg [options] [package package ...]

## Description

Assuming for the moment that brew_dg is given no options, for each
package given, brew_dg will display that package, along with its
Required and Recommended dependencies. brew_dg orders the packages such
that a given package will not be installed until its Recommended and
Required dependencies have been installed.

If no options or pacakges are given, brew_dg displays any homebrew
packages you've installed, along with any uninstalled, Recommended
dependencies in an order such that a package will not be installed until
its dependencies have been installed.

The following options allow users to configure and tweak the details of the
preceeding description:

    -a
        Display all dependencies, including Optional and Build dependencies.

    -o [file]
        Draw graph, and write it to file. Directed edges are read as "depends
        on." If given a directory $DIR, the file will be located at
        $DIR/library.png. See Graph section for stylistic details.

    -O [file]
        Draw inverted graph, and write it to file. Directed edges are read as
        "is a dependency of." If given a directory $DIR, the file will be
        located at $DIR/library.png. See Graph section for stylistic details.

    -t types
        Display only dependencies of the comma-delimited types specified. e.g.
        `-t Recommended,Optional'

## Graph

The graph uses edge and arrow styles to differentiate between dependency
types.

    Required:    A solid edge with a filled, triangular arrow.
    Recommended: A solid edge with an empty, triangular arrow.
    Optional:    A dotted edge with a filled, triangular arrow.
    Build:       A dotted edge with a tee-shaped arrow.
